---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: course
permalink: /courses/rob501

---
## Fundamentals & Emerging Topics In Robotics

<div style="text-align: justify">The aim of this course is to establish a common understanding on the fundamental topics of robotics for the students from different backgrounds. The topics covered are the most prominent subjects in the framework of robotics, and those are control theory, Bayesian state estimation, kinetics and dynamics, motion planning,  and machine learning. Though all of these subjects are studied in great depth in various courses which are offered as the technical electives in the program, for the students who are unfamiliar with these topics, there is no introductory course at the graduate level. Therefore, the proposed course aims to establish a common background in the core subjects of robotics.</div>



## Course Staff
- [Buğra Koku](https://me.metu.edu.tr/kisi/bugra-koku)
- [Mustafa Mert Ankaralı](https://eee.metu.edu.tr/personel/mustafa-mert-ankarali)
- Elif Sarıtaş
- [Yiğit Yazıcıoğlu](https://me.metu.edu.tr/tr/kisi/yigit-yazicioglu)
- [Erol Şahin](https://kovan.ceng.metu.edu.tr/~erol/)
- [Sinan Kalkan](https://user.ceng.metu.edu.tr/~skalkan/)



## Textbooks: 
- Modern Robotics: Mechanics, Planning, and Control, Frank C. Park and Kevin Lynch, Cambridge University Press, 2017.
- Probabilistic Robotics, S. Thrun, et al, MIT Press, 2005.
- Principles of Robot Motion, H. Choset, et al, MIT Press, 2005.
- Discrete-time Control Systems, K. Ogata, Pearson, 1987.

## Reference Materials: 
- Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, Y. Bar-Shalom, et al., Wiley, 2001.
- Bayesian Filtering and Smoothing, Simo Sarkka, Cambridge University Press, 2013.
- EE402 Lecture Notes of Mustafa Mert Ankaralı, [Online](https://github.com/mertankarali/Lecture-Notes/tree/master/METU-EE402).



## Schedule
- Tuesday , 09:40 - 11:30, EA209
- Wednesday, 15:40 - 17:30, BMB1
- Friday , 13:40 - 15:30, BMB3

##  Tentative Weekly Schedule (Spring 2022)

|Week| Date   | Content | Meeting | Lecturer | Assignment | Reading |
:--- |:-------|:--------|:--------|:-----------|:--------|
1    | |Math and computing fundamentals: Linear Algebra-I | |Buğra Koku | | |
2    | |Math and computing fundamentals: Linear Algebra-II | |Buğra Koku | | |
3    | |Digital Control Systems: Fundamentals & Analysis Tools | |M. Mert Ankaralı | | |
4    | |Design of Digital Controllers for Digital Control Systems | |M. Mert Ankaralı | | |
5    | |Design of Digital Controllers & Observers for Digital Control Systems | |M. Mert Ankaralı | | |
6    | |Estimation Theory: Probability Overview | |Elif Sarıtaş | | |
7    | |Estimation Theory: Bayesian State Estimation | |Elif Sarıtaş | | |
8    | |Estimation Theory: Kalman Filter and its variants | |Elif Sarıtaş | | |
9    | |Rigid body motion: Kinematics | |Yiğit Yazıcıoğlu | | |
10   | |Rigid body motion: Dynamics | |Yiğit Yazıcıoğlu | | |
11   | |Motion Planning: Configuration Space | |Erol Şahin | | |
12   | |Motion Planning: Road Map Methods & Graph Search Algorithms | |Erol Şahin | | |
13   | |Motion Planning: Probabilistic Planning & Feedback Motion Planning | |Erol Şahin | | |
14   | |Learning and Perception in Robotics | |Sinan Kalkan | | |


[syllabus]: ../assets/docs/syllabus.pdf
 